
Processing video for speech transcription.
So I can talk to her from a public health perspective because this is something I spent a lot of time on in the last 30 years of my career. You know what I have what I call the j-shaped curve of neglect something bad happens and we realized that you know the work that we do in public health and the things that we have in our Healthcare System to help protect people and look after people get we pay attention to it and then as things go Go by and it's not so bad anymore. We get complacent and and the resources that go into things like prevention things like public health work go down. And then unfortunately we often see things rise again. We've seen that with tuberculosis we've seen that after tsar's where there was a lot of effort put into recognition that we have that we needed to put work into infection prevention and control in hospitals into public health into those safety nets in our Healthcare System. But we also know in this country, you know Healthcare is an expensive proposition. It takes a lot of our budgets it takes and it's something that is near and dear and important to all of us and it's easy when we're faced with fiscal constraints to whittle away at prevention and we've seen that happen in many many cases so much of what we're dealing with now, I mean, I think H1N1 is a good case in point where they The thoughts after it was oh, well, that wasn't so bad. So, you know, maybe we're okay. And for those of us who are in public health at the time was like it was bad and it could have been a whole lot worse and some of those mechanisms that we've been that we need to have to in public health in prevention in even things as important as that what we call the Social determinants of Health poverty reduction. Those are things that make a difference in Our ability to be resilient the to this type of Crisis having said that I don't think anybody in the world really felt that we would ever get to the type of pandemic that we're experiencing right now. And I know I have talked for many years in The Who and these other groups that I work with about some of the measures that we have implemented in the last two weeks. And I've said this before I never ever thought that I would have to do those types of things. But right now this is what we need to do and we've seen that across the world. We need to work with what we've got and try and make it better and try and get through this and then we can reassess you know, where it is. We need to make changes for the future. Well, I'd say first of all that the work that's been done since we put our emergency response together at the end of January has been extraordinary and far-sighted and obviously we've been preparing to have new ventilators or renewed ventilators and with the 15 and the 57 that are refurbished and going back into action now having been in most cases upgraded. We've added 72 as of now, we're not going to count as I think I said before. Justine the ventilators are coming except they come from the same source that we received the 15 from which gives us some optimism that they're coming. I think it's fair to say that you can always be more prepared and that the level of this epidemic this pandemic has been a surprise to most public health people in the world the extent of it the fact that we're taking these measures of, dr. Henry said is extraordinary. I think some of the steps we've taken our important. Oops, if you look at the long-term care sector and the fact that workers often work at different homes. We did bring in Bill 47 about a year ago, but I think the experience of the last few weeks and of the next few weeks tells us that we're going to have to do more working with that sector to do better for workers and to ensure to the maximum extent possible. That workers are working at one care home in future and I've not and I won't be taking any Any effort to ascribe blame to those sorts of things. I don't think there's any point to do that right now. I think an important change we made a year ago was to bring in Metro Vancouver home care and home Support Services which are critical at this time as well. And we haven't spoken as much about under the orbit direct responsibility of the health authorities in the direct management the health. I think that's a positive change in helping to address these questions. I think urgent and Primary Care Centers, which you've talked about a lot. For example in their expansion. I don't think we imagined the use to which some of them would have been put in the last few weeks the people who work there have been extraordinary. But those were intended to reduce to reduce the number of people and to serve the people who are without a primary care doctor, but they've they've proven to be very useful I think in community and we've all seen this and people who've seen them in action understand this so there's lots to do and I think Will be profound lessons to learn from this after the fact and I'll be the first the first learning them and the first to take responsibility, but right now I'm very proud of the leadership that people in healthcare have shown the preparations. They've made we've demonstrated in detail here what the circumstances are you are getting the same information today that we have and making our planning decisions so that everyone can see them there are challenges. This is an unprecedented Health Emergency and British Columbia in my lifetime and I think under the circumstances particularly those who work in healthcare have operated as we would expect them to do with the highest ethics with courage with Brilliance with generosity and I am very grateful to everybody who works in the Health Care system from those who clean facilities to those whose work has carried stew Health Sciences professionals to nurses to pharmacist and midwives to doctors to administrators to everybody they all deserve our appreciation and Thanks, and finally are 100% commitment to following. Dr. Henry's orders and advice because if we do that were being true to them in this important moment for our province.
